The data files released here are based on the corpus collected by Matt MacMahon (matt@macmahon.org) as described in his AAAI 2006 paper:

http://robotics.csres.utexas.edu/~adastra/papers/b2hd-macmahonstankiewiczkuipers-aaai-06.html

Original instructor/follower data can be downloaded from his website:

http://robotics.csres.utexas.edu/~adastra/papers/MacMahon-Route-Instruction-Corpus.tar.gz

--------------------------------------------------

While the original data contained follower data for individual subjects, we have combined them together to form a canonical path for each instruction.  This is done in attempt to represent what most followers did following a particular instruction.  Notice that this path may not always lead to the intended destination.

The original instructions were collected in paragraph form that consists of 5 sentences on average, this data is included in Paragraph.xml.  We have also segmented this data into individual sentences, included in SingleSentence.xml.  During the segmentation process, we attempted to align a reasonable action trace to each sentence.  However, Some instructions that could not be aligned were discarded.

The corpus has also been translated into Mandarin Chinese by Lu Guo.  The translations can be found in SingleSentence_Mandarin.xml and Paragraph_Mandarin.xml.

--------------------------------------------------

The data files have the following format:

id: The ID of the example.  There are some gaps because there are some additional examples (as mentioned in Matt's dissertation) that we have not yet processed.

map: The name of the map.  This could be one of 3 values (Grid, L, or Jelly)

start and end (Paragraph only): The starting location and intended destination (x,y) used in the data collection process.  Notice the path does not always end up in the intended destination.

instruction file name: The file name of the original data file.  This contains identification information of the instructor, the map used,and the numbered (1-7) locations used in Matt's experiments.

path: A sequence of positions (x, y, orientation) that represents how a human is likely to act following the given instruction.  Please refer to the maps for legal x, y coordinates.  There are 5 possible orientations (0, 90, 180, 270, -1).  A value of -1 means the orientation is unspecified which happens at the beginning of every paragraph.  This is because Matt randomized the orientation during data collection.
